All right, so let's work on the searching and filtering something like this.
So we start from this page admin posts of posts, and I think we all read their admin posts index.
So here is a first.
When you type something in the input field, we need to put that value in the state.
So let's clear the state.
Let's bring the use state.
Who again to?
And we can call that keyword keyword sort of the user types said keyword used to.
Then once you have that, it would need to have that source back and we can render it that way, which
we have the post list.
We have the heading.
We can just put it right here.
So here we use input component from end.
All right.
And then we give the placeholder, let's call it search type.
Search
value
to value is going to be keyword.
And then on its end, we give the value, the uses that types using event target values, event set,
keyword event target target then.
Now in addition to this, now what I'm going to do is I'm going to make it all lowercase because when
you're just typing in for sorting something, most likely they will be typing in the lowercase.
So we use it lowercase.
Actually we can just you to lower case.
All right, so we have the input field.
So why do we use the types in we put in the state all lowercase.
And then.
We just need to filter out the list, right to post list.
We have this component that is responsible for suing on the post.
So this post we just need to filter out.
So.
You did.
Looks like we have duplicate.
Oh.
So it's already there.
Input we don't have the component from and it's important inputs.
All right.
So we have that.
But obviously, it doesn't work at the moment.
What do we use, the types that keyword we have in the state?
Now, based on that keyword, we can filter out and that is something we can put in a separate function.
Oh, we can even put.
All right here.
So post instead of sending the post, let's filter out based on the keyword because that's the only
those are the posting one want to show.
Right.
So post dot filter and filter is a function that takes another function.
All right.
So when you filter, that means
we are accessing its post into this filter function.
So when we get is post, what you would do is you want to filter out the post total dot lowercase.
You want to make sure make it lowercase so that we can compare with the keyword.
I used to if the post title lowercase includes the keyword that you have typed and that is in the state,
then you want to render that right.
So by default it will all render.
To lower costs.
I guess by default it would render everything.
But as soon as the user type something in it will take if.
That cured whatever time did.
If that in if the post data includes that keyword, then that will be that rendered.
So when you use it, I have something that will get filter, but otherwise it will be just empty so
that everything will be visible.
I get to Can he see you?
So let's try first.
First you can see here, Phaedra, understand you.
Okay.
So this really nice searching filtering.
And this is something we can use in other bases as a principle.
All users see and use it here as well.
So let's try to use that here.
We can filter out and we can filter out.
So it's going to be similar.
So I'm going to.
Open a new and new split window.
And here I want to open another file for admin users index.
All right.
So here we need this state so you can just cook in it.
Then.
We want that input, which is right here.
Let's copy that and make sure we have the input component.
So it's come down here to the written block and we can put it right here, just under the heading.
All right.
So the similar do we need to filter out right now this time what we have here is we are using list list
data, source, narcissus users.
I can put it in a variable as much of this value.
Let's call it filtered users.
It's a data source.
To use this.
I'm going to put it in a very.
Going to filter two uses equals to.
He uses a filter might have been maybe just put this question mark at as well so that sometimes you
might not have the post immediately and the filter function will throw an error.
Okay.
So uses filter filter function.
Then you get each user and you.
To use a dog name.
Don't do no kiss.
Includes the cure.
All right, so that's the filter.
It's the same thing.
But this time we put in a variable just to make things a little bit cleaner.
All right, so filtered uses we are giving here to this list as data, so let's give it a try.
Now, guess we've got that server admin.
Beautiful also.
All right, so it works.
Awesome.
All right, so you learn how to easily use searching and filtering in your users as well as in posts.